if i were starting a youtube channel
today here are four things that i wish i
would have known before i got started
see when i started a youtube channel in
2017 i made a lot of mistakes i wasted a
lot of time and money and i produced a
ton of videos that really didn't do well
for me and it took me a while over a
year to really figure things out and
start consistently growing my channel
and the things that produced the bulk of
my results were actually pretty simple
i know there are lots of flashy advice
out there on how to grow your youtube
channel but the fundamentals are
actually pretty easy so instead of
telling you all the sophisticated stuff
that other people are going to tell you
in a 10 or 20 minute video i'm just
going to focus on the four main things
that i wish i would have known before i
was getting started tip number one it's
all about the first 24 hours see
traditional marketing like seo and
google is how well do you do in the long
run it's slow and steady wins the race
you've got to build links slowly
continue to publish content slow and
steady wins a race it's very rare that
you publish your article and you just
rank number one out the gates no matter
how much authority you have
youtube is a little bit different videos
that do really well in the first 24
hours aka go viral or have a lot of
views tend to keep doing well after 24
hours which means you can rank at the
top right away you can get tons of views
right away and you don't have to have
age on your account or your website like
you would for google to do well in
essence new channels new videos that do
well in the first 24 hours can keep
doing well years later so what i would
recommend is whenever you have a video
push it out hard on social media tell
your friends to like it engage with it
by commenting if you have an email list
do an email blast if you have a push
notification uh list through the tools
like subscribers do a push blast um if
you have chat bot lists do things like
mini uh chat send out a blast there as
well so push it out as many places in
the first 24 hours and ideally even the
first hour because that's when it that's
what's gonna get your video as many
views and cause it to rank really high
in the long run
tip number two
it's all about the thumbnail see
everyone talks about titles yes titles
are important but what we found is if
your thumbnails aren't good you won't
get the click-through rates and your
videos just don't get suggested as much
because a lot of people don't read
they're just clicking on those thumbnail
images that are appealing tip number
three it's all about the keywords sure
titles are important but if your titles
don't have the keyword in there you're
not gonna rank as well so i want you to
put the keyword in your title in your
first paragraph your first sentence when
you leave a comment you can leave a pin
comment try to include the keyword in
there when you're recording a video
mention that keyword as well and you're
more likely to rank for that keyword see
youtube can transcribe your video even
if you don't upload a srt file and they
know what you're talking about so you
want to use the keywords within all
places that youtube allows you including
things like tags
so what i want you to do is go to
ubersys type in the keyword related to
your video and it'll show you all the
other popular related keywords that you
should include or talk about if they're
related to your video whether it's
question related or whether it's
preposition or comparison related or
just other keywords within your industry
you can get a laundry list from
ubersuggest
tip number four you gotta ask questions
this is what i didn't do early on when
you film a video like this
you gotta ask questions so the question
i have for you for this video is
what's your best youtube marketing hack
leave a comment below and letting me
know that i'm sharing my four here and
what i found is when someone likes or
share your video it's not that powerful
compared to them leaving a comment you
need to encourage comments how do you
encourage a comment you ask a question
during your video that's what will get
you the most questions or more so
comments versus you know not asking
people a question it's that simple now
when i first started i would actually
ask questions that were yes or no like
have you ever been penalized on google
yes or no have you ever uploaded a video
on youtube leave a comment below yes or
no but what happened over time is the
youtube algorithm learned so when people
leave yes or no responses it's not that
powerful versus them actually leaving a
comment with a sentence or two so engage
with your audience through questions
within your video you do those four
youtube tricks or tips you'll start
seeing much better results a lot of
people don't talk about them their
fundamentals they work